Quick start with objective-php/router
==================================

Pre-requisites
--------------

The most important pre-requisite needed to use objective-php/router is PHP7.

If you don\'t have it installed yet, please take a look at [Official PHP
website] and read instruction about PHP7 installation on your
development machine.

Installation
------------

The easiest way to include a project with Objective PHP is to use
composer\'s \"require\" feature.

The following command assumes composer is available in your current
PATH:
``` bash
    composer require objective-php/router
```


  [Official PHP website]: http://www.php.net



Meta Router
-----------
A meta router is a simple middleware on which actual routers can be registered. When executed, this middleware will loop on all registered routers,
and stop looping as soon as one of the registered routers matches a route.

```php
$metaRouter = new MetaRouter();
$metaRouter->register(new CustomRouter);
```

  
Routers
-------
Routers have to implement ```ObjectivePHP\Router\RouterInterface``` to be allowed to get registered on the meta router.

This simple interface requires routers to implement ```route(ServerRequestInterface $request, RequestHandlerInterface $handler): RoutingResult``` and ```url($route, $params)``` methods, the first one to test current request against declared routes, the latter to build a URL from a route name and params.  

Method ```route(ServerRequestInterface $request, RequestHandlerInterface $handler): RoutingResult``` is expected to return an instance of ```RoutingResult``` while ```url($route, $params)``` has to return a string.
 
Routing result interpretation
-----------------------------
 
The MetaRouter knows when a Router actually matched a route if the ```didMatch()``` method of the ```RoutingResult``` object returns ```true```. 
 
Matched route
-------------
 
A ```RoutingResult``` that did match is able to return a ```MatchedRoute``` instance, that will let know the rest of the application about what route matched, what action this means, what params comes with and what Router did match the route.

Performance
-----------

Using several routers can help dealing with performance issue, since it allows to use advanced routes when needed only. Please note that the later a Router is registered, the higher is its priority in the routing loop.
 